# Node Foundation CTC Meeting 2015-11-04

## Links

* **Audio Recording**: https://soundcloud.com/node-foundation/ctc-meeting-2015-11-04
* **GitHub Issue**: https://github.com/nodejs/node/issues/3660
* **Minutes Google Doc**: <https://docs.google.com/document/d/1BlgxBLqnoK6slwAkGXUcIy7CFh1m9ZyLo_D_ABcw6vc>
* _Previous Minutes Google Doc: <https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GsTF3no6bimA20hi9i5aTBudBSM8jzPvuODR01hOltc>_

## Present

* Rod Vagg (CTC)
* James Snell (CTC)
* Chris Dickinson (CTC)
* Ben Noordhuis (CTC)
* Jeremiah Senkpiel (CTC)
* Trevor Norris (CTC)
* Alexis Campailla (CTC)
* Mikeal Rogers (observer)
* Shigeki Ohtsu (CTC)
* Seth Thompson (observer)
* Bert Belder (CTC)
* Fedor Indutny (CTC)
* Ben Noordhuis (CTC)
* Colin Ihrig (CTC)

## Agenda

Extracted from **ctc-agenda** labelled issues and pull requests in the nodejs org prior to meeting.

### nodejs/node

* deps: backport 9da3ab6 from V8 upstream [#3609](https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/3609)

## Minutes

### Review of previous meeting

* Load JSON-LD in the same way as JSON [#3502](https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/3502)
* fs: decode filenames using UTF-8 in fs.watch [#3401](https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/3401)
* WG: Considering a new HTTP WG [#3214](https://github.com/nodejs/node/issues/3214)
* node-gyp: Windows users are not happy. [node-gyp#629](https://github.com/nodejs/node-gyp/issues/629)

### Standup

* Rod: 0.12/0.10 build infra
* Michael: catching up from being away
* Trevor: reviewing PRs
* James: v4.2.2

### deps: backport 9da3ab6 from V8 upstream [#3609](https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/3609)

Discussed the semver for this feature, should it be patch or minor? LTS WG has agreed to land this patch but are unsure whether it should bump minor. Discussed some of the points in the issue.

Trevor: this issue seems to have made it in thanks to a lot of noise made by users, is this going to be a factor in considering future changes for LTS?

Discussed this topic, agreeing that we shouldn’t be held captive to bike-shedding.

Bert: would be surprised if this landed as semver-minor, it’s clearly a feature addition.

Trevor: can we stash this and wait to see what else might be landable—can we expect to have these conversations in the future?

## Next Meeting

November 11th, 2015
