io.js is licensed for use as follows:

"""
Copyright io.js contributors. All rights reserved.

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to
deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the
rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or
sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS
IN THE SOFTWARE.
"""

This license applies to parts of io.js originating from the
https://github.com/joyent/node repository:

"""
Copyright Joyent, Inc. and other Node contributors. All rights reserved.
Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to
deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the
rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or
sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS
IN THE SOFTWARE.
"""

The io.js license applies to all parts of io.js that are not externally
maintained libraries.

The externally maintained libraries used by io.js are:

- V8, located at deps/v8. V8's license follows:
  """
    This license applies to all parts of V8 that are not externally
    maintained libraries.  The externally maintained libraries used by V8
    are:

      - PCRE test suite, located in
        test/mjsunit/third_party/regexp-pcre.js.  This is based on the
        test suite from PCRE-7.3, which is copyrighted by the University
        of Cambridge and Google, Inc.  The copyright notice and license
        are embedded in regexp-pcre.js.

      - Layout tests, located in test/mjsunit/third_party.  These are
        based on layout tests from webkit.org which are copyrighted by
        Apple Computer, Inc. and released under a 3-clause BSD license.

      - Strongtalk assembler, the basis of the files assembler-arm-inl.h,
        assembler-arm.cc, assembler-arm.h, assembler-ia32-inl.h,
        assembler-ia32.cc, assembler-ia32.h, assembler-x64-inl.h,
        assembler-x64.cc, assembler-x64.h, assembler-mips-inl.h,
        assembler-mips.cc, assembler-mips.h, assembler.cc and assembler.h.
        This code is copyrighted by Sun Microsystems Inc. and released
        under a 3-clause BSD license.

      - Valgrind client API header, located at third_party/valgrind/valgrind.h
        This is release under the BSD license.

    These libraries have their own licenses; we recommend you read them,
    as their terms may differ from the terms below.

    Copyright 2006-2012, the V8 project authors. All rights reserved.
    Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
    modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
    met:

        * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
          notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
        * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above
          copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following
          disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided
          with the distribution.
        * Neither the name of Google Inc. nor the names of its
          contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived
          from this software without specific prior written permission.

    THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
    "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
    LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
    A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
    OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
    SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
    LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
    DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
    THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
    (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
    OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
  """

- C-Ares, an asynchronous DNS client, located at deps/cares. C-Ares license
  follows:
  """
    /* Copyright 1998 by the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
     *
     * Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this
     * software and its documentation for any purpose and without
     * fee is hereby granted, provided that the above copyright
     * notice appear in all copies and that both that copyright
     * notice and this permission notice appear in supporting
     * documentation, and that the name of M.I.T. not be used in
     * advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of the
     * software without specific, written prior permission.
     * M.I.T. makes no representations about the suitability of
     * this software for any purpose.  It is provided "as is"
     * without express or implied warranty.
  """

- OpenSSL located at deps/openssl. OpenSSL is cryptographic software written
  by Eric Young (eay@cryptsoft.com) to provide SSL/TLS encryption. OpenSSL's
  license follows:
  """
    /* ====================================================================
     * Copyright (c) 1998-2011 The OpenSSL Project.  All rights reserved.
     *
     * Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
     * modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
     * are met:
     *
     * 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
     *    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
     *
     * 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
     *    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in
     *    the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
     *    distribution.
     *
     * 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this
     *    software must display the following acknowledgment:
     *    "This product includes software developed by the OpenSSL Project
     *    for use in the OpenSSL Toolkit. (http://www.openssl.org/)"
     *
     * 4. The names "OpenSSL Toolkit" and "OpenSSL Project" must not be used to
     *    endorse or promote products derived from this software without
     *    prior written permission. For written permission, please contact
     *    openssl-core@openssl.org.
     *
     * 5. Products derived from this software may not be called "OpenSSL"
     *    nor may "OpenSSL" appear in their names without prior written
     *    permission of the OpenSSL Project.
     *
     * 6. Redistributions of any form whatsoever must retain the following
     *    acknowledgment:
     *    "This product includes software developed by the OpenSSL Project
     *    for use in the OpenSSL Toolkit (http://www.openssl.org/)"
     *
     * THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE OpenSSL PROJECT ``AS IS'' AND ANY
     * EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
     * IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
     * PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE OpenSSL PROJECT OR
     * ITS CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
     * SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT
     * NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES;
     * LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
     * HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT,
     * STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
     * ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED
     * OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
     * ====================================================================
     *
     * This product includes cryptographic software written by Eric Young
     * (eay@cryptsoft.com).  This product includes software written by Tim
     * Hudson (tjh@cryptsoft.com).
     *
     */
  """

- HTTP Parser, located at deps/http_parser. HTTP Parser's license follows:
  """
    http_parser.c is based on src/http/ngx_http_parse.c from NGINX copyright
    Igor Sysoev.

    Additional changes are licensed under the same terms as NGINX and
    copyright Joyent, Inc. and other Node contributors. All rights reserved.

    Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
    of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to
    deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the
    rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or
    sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
    furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

    The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
    all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

    THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
    IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
    FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
    AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
    LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
    FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS
    IN THE SOFTWARE.
  """

- Closure Linter is located at tools/closure_linter. Closure's license
  follows:
  """
    # Copyright (c) 2007, Google Inc.
    # All rights reserved.
    #
    # Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
    # modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
    # met:
    #
    #     * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
    # notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
    #     * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above
    # copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer
    # in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
    # distribution.
    #     * Neither the name of Google Inc. nor the names of its
    # contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from
    # this software without specific prior written permission.
    #
    # THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
    # "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
    # LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
    # A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
    # OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
    # SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
    # LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
    # DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
    # THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
    # (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
    # OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
  """

- python-gflags is located at tools/gflags.  Its license follows:
  """
    # Copyright (c) 2006, Google Inc.
    # All rights reserved.
    #
    # Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
    # modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
    # met:
    #
    #     * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
    # notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
    #     * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above
    # copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer
    # in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
    # distribution.
    #     * Neither the name of Google Inc. nor the names of its
    # contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from
    # this software without specific prior written permission.
    #
    # THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
    # "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
    # LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
    # A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
    # OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
    # SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
    # LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
    # DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
    # THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
    # (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
    # OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
  """

- tools/cpplint.py is a C++ linter. Its license follows:
  """
    # Copyright (c) 2009 Google Inc. All rights reserved.
    #
    # Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
    # modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
    # met:
    #
    #    * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
    # notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
    #    * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above
    # copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer
    # in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
    # distribution.
    #    * Neither the name of Google Inc. nor the names of its
    # contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from
    # this software without specific prior written permission.
    #
    # THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
    # "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
    # LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
    # A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
    # OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
    # SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
    # LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
    # DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
    # THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
    # (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
    # OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
  """

- lib/punycode.js is copyright 2011 Mathias Bynens <http://mathiasbynens.be/>
  and released under the MIT license.
  """
    * Punycode.js <http://mths.be/punycode>
    * Copyright 2011 Mathias Bynens <http://mathiasbynens.be/>
    * Available under MIT license <http://mths.be/mit>
  """

- tools/gyp. GYP is a meta-build system. GYP's license follows:
  """
    Copyright (c) 2009 Google Inc. All rights reserved.

    Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
    modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
    met:

       * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
       * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above
    copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer
    in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
    distribution.
       * Neither the name of Google Inc. nor the names of its
    contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from
    this software without specific prior written permission.

    THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
    "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
    LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
    A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
    OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
    SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
    LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
    DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
    THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
    (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
    OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
  """

- Zlib at deps/zlib. zlib's license follows:
  """
    /* zlib.h -- interface of the 'zlib' general purpose compression library
      version 1.2.8, April 28th, 2013

      Copyright (C) 1995-2013 Jean-loup Gailly and Mark Adler

      This software is provided 'as-is', without any express or implied
      warranty.  In no event will the authors be held liable for any damages
      arising from the use of this software.

      Permission is granted to anyone to use this software for any purpose,
      including commercial applications, and to alter it and redistribute it
      freely, subject to the following restrictions:

      1. The origin of this software must not be misrepresented; you must not
         claim that you wrote the original software. If you use this software
         in a product, an acknowledgment in the product documentation would be
         appreciated but is not required.
      2. Altered source versions must be plainly marked as such, and must not be
         misrepresented as being the original software.
      3. This notice may not be removed or altered from any source distribution.

      Jean-loup Gailly        Mark Adler
      jloup@gzip.org          madler@alumni.caltech.edu
    */
  """

- npm is a package manager program located at deps/npm.
  npm's license follows:
  """
    Copyright (c) Isaac Z. Schlueter
    All rights reserved.

    npm is released under the Artistic 2.0 License.
    The text of the License follows:


    --------


    The Artistic License 2.0

    Copyright (c) 2000-2006, The Perl Foundation.

    Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies
    of this license document, but changing it is not allowed.

    Preamble

    This license establishes the terms under which a given free software
    Package may be copied, modified, distributed, and/or redistributed.
    The intent is that the Copyright Holder maintains some artistic
    control over the development of that Package while still keeping the
    Package available as open source and free software.

    You are always permitted to make arrangements wholly outside of this
    license directly with the Copyright Holder of a given Package.  If the
    terms of this license do not permit the full use that you propose to
    make of the Package, you should contact the Copyright Holder and seek
    a different licensing arrangement.

    Definitions

        "Copyright Holder" means the individual(s) or organization(s)
        named in the copyright notice for the entire Package.

        "Contributor" means any party that has contributed code or other
        material to the Package, in accordance with the Copyright Holder's
        procedures.

        "You" and "your" means any person who would like to copy,
        distribute, or modify the Package.

        "Package" means the collection of files distributed by the
        Copyright Holder, and derivatives of that collection and/or of
        those files. A given Package may consist of either the Standard
        Version, or a Modified Version.

        "Distribute" means providing a copy of the Package or making it
        accessible to anyone else, or in the case of a company or
        organization, to others outside of your company or organization.

        "Distributor Fee" means any fee that you charge for Distributing
        this Package or providing support for this Package to another
        party.  It does not mean licensing fees.

        "Standard Version" refers to the Package if it has not been
        modified, or has been modified only in ways explicitly requested
        by the Copyright Holder.

        "Modified Version" means the Package, if it has been changed, and
        such changes were not explicitly requested by the Copyright
        Holder.

        "Original License" means this Artistic License as Distributed with
        the Standard Version of the Package, in its current version or as
        it may be modified by The Perl Foundation in the future.

        "Source" form means the source code, documentation source, and
        configuration files for the Package.

        "Compiled" form means the compiled bytecode, object code, binary,
        or any other form resulting from mechanical transformation or
        translation of the Source form.


    Permission for Use and Modification Without Distribution

    (1)  You are permitted to use the Standard Version and create and use
    Modified Versions for any purpose without restriction, provided that
    you do not Distribute the Modified Version.


    Permissions for Redistribution of the Standard Version

    (2)  You may Distribute verbatim copies of the Source form of the
    Standard Version of this Package in any medium without restriction,
    either gratis or for a Distributor Fee, provided that you duplicate
    all of the original copyright notices and associated disclaimers.  At
    your discretion, such verbatim copies may or may not include a
    Compiled form of the Package.

    (3)  You may apply any bug fixes, portability changes, and other
    modifications made available from the Copyright Holder.  The resulting
    Package will still be considered the Standard Version, and as such
    will be subject to the Original License.


    Distribution of Modified Versions of the Package as Source

    (4)  You may Distribute your Modified Version as Source (either gratis
    or for a Distributor Fee, and with or without a Compiled form of the
    Modified Version) provided that you clearly document how it differs
    from the Standard Version, including, but not limited to, documenting
    any non-standard features, executables, or modules, and provided that
    you do at least ONE of the following:

        (a)  make the Modified Version available to the Copyright Holder
        of the Standard Version, under the Original License, so that the
        Copyright Holder may include your modifications in the Standard
        Version.

        (b)  ensure that installation of your Modified Version does not
        prevent the user installing or running the Standard Version. In
        addition, the Modified Version must bear a name that is different
        from the name of the Standard Version.

        (c)  allow anyone who receives a copy of the Modified Version to
        make the Source form of the Modified Version available to others
        under

            (i)  the Original License or

            (ii)  a license that permits the licensee to freely copy,
            modify and redistribute the Modified Version using the same
            licensing terms that apply to the copy that the licensee
            received, and requires that the Source form of the Modified
            Version, and of any works derived from it, be made freely
            available in that license fees are prohibited but Distributor
            Fees are allowed.


    Distribution of Compiled Forms of the Standard Version
    or Modified Versions without the Source

    (5)  You may Distribute Compiled forms of the Standard Version without
    the Source, provided that you include complete instructions on how to
    get the Source of the Standard Version.  Such instructions must be
    valid at the time of your distribution.  If these instructions, at any
    time while you are carrying out such distribution, become invalid, you
    must provide new instructions on demand or cease further distribution.
    If you provide valid instructions or cease distribution within thirty
    days after you become aware that the instructions are invalid, then
    you do not forfeit any of your rights under this license.

    (6)  You may Distribute a Modified Version in Compiled form without
    the Source, provided that you comply with Section 4 with respect to
    the Source of the Modified Version.


    Aggregating or Linking the Package

    (7)  You may aggregate the Package (either the Standard Version or
    Modified Version) with other packages and Distribute the resulting
    aggregation provided that you do not charge a licensing fee for the
    Package.  Distributor Fees are permitted, and licensing fees for other
    components in the aggregation are permitted. The terms of this license
    apply to the use and Distribution of the Standard or Modified Versions
    as included in the aggregation.

    (8) You are permitted to link Modified and Standard Versions with
    other works, to embed the Package in a larger work of your own, or to
    build stand-alone binary or bytecode versions of applications that
    include the Package, and Distribute the result without restriction,
    provided the result does not expose a direct interface to the Package.


    Items That are Not Considered Part of a Modified Version

    (9) Works (including, but not limited to, modules and scripts) that
    merely extend or make use of the Package, do not, by themselves, cause
    the Package to be a Modified Version.  In addition, such works are not
    considered parts of the Package itself, and are not subject to the
    terms of this license.


    General Provisions

    (10)  Any use, modification, and distribution of the Standard or
    Modified Versions is governed by this Artistic License. By using,
    modifying or distributing the Package, you accept this license. Do not
    use, modify, or distribute the Package, if you do not accept this
    license.

    (11)  If your Modified Version has been derived from a Modified
    Version made by someone other than you, you are nevertheless required
    to ensure that your Modified Version complies with the requirements of
    this license.

    (12)  This license does not grant you the right to use any trademark,
    service mark, tradename, or logo of the Copyright Holder.

    (13)  This license includes the non-exclusive, worldwide,
    free-of-charge patent license to make, have made, use, offer to sell,
    sell, import and otherwise transfer the Package with respect to any
    patent claims licensable by the Copyright Holder that are necessarily
    infringed by the Package. If you institute patent litigation
    (including a cross-claim or counterclaim) against any party alleging
    that the Package constitutes direct or contributory patent
    infringement, then this Artistic License to you shall terminate on the
    date that such litigation is filed.

    (14)  Disclaimer of Warranty:
    THE PACKAGE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS
    IS' AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES. THE IMPLIED
    WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, OR
    NON-INFRINGEMENT ARE DISCLAIMED TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY YOUR LOCAL
    LAW. UNLESS REQUIRED BY LAW, NO COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTOR WILL
    BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
    DAMAGES ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THE PACKAGE, EVEN IF
    ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.


    --------


    "Node.js" and "node" trademark Joyent, Inc. npm is not officially
    part of the Node.js project, and is neither owned by nor
    officially affiliated with Joyent, Inc.

    Packages published in the npm registry (other than the Software and
    its included dependencies) are not part of npm itself, are the sole
    property of their respective maintainers, and are not covered by
    this license.

    "npm Logo" created by Mathias Pettersson and Brian Hammond,
    used with permission.

    "Gubblebum Blocky" font
    Copyright (c) by Tjarda Koster, http://jelloween.deviantart.com
    included for use in the npm website and documentation,
    used with permission.

    This program uses several io.js modules contained in the node_modules/
    subdirectory, according to the terms of their respective licenses.
  """

- tools/doc/node_modules/marked. Marked is a Markdown parser. Marked's
  license follows:
  """
    Copyright (c) 2011-2012, Christopher Jeffrey (https://github.com/chjj/)

    Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
    of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
    in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
    to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
    copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
    furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

    The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
    all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

    THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
    IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
    FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
    AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
    LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
    OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN
    THE SOFTWARE.
  """

- test/gc/node_modules/weak. Node-weak is a node.js addon that provides garbage
  collector notifications. Node-weak's license follows:
  """
    Copyright (c) 2011, Ben Noordhuis <info@bnoordhuis.nl>

    Permission to use, copy, modify, and/or distribute this software for any
    purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
    copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.

    THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
    WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
    MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
    ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
    WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
    ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
    OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
  """
